Welcome, in this video, we're going to look at resolving conflicts
between our local repository and our GitHub repository.
Let's get started on the remote side.
I'm currently in GitHub, and I'm in the website GitHub repository;
I'm on the newly set develop branch as our new default branch,
and while I'm here, I'm going to make a quick change that I know is going to conflict.
Let's edit the "README.md" file; click on the file, and then click on edit this file.
At the end, I'm going to add some text, and then I'm going to go ahead and
commit my changes; again I'm making my commit message fairly obvious,
so that we can track what's going on "Problematic changes from GitHub".
Once I'm happy, click on "commit changes";
now, let's head over to our repository on our local side.
So, I'm back in the terminal; I'm currently in the "website" Git repository.
Although I'm currently on master, let's switch over to develop.
Now that we're on develop, I know that we've made changes on the remote side,
so let's do a "git fetch" first. So, if we do a "git status" now,
we can see that 'origin/develop' is ahead of my local develop by one commit.
I'm going to update my Readme file before I issue the "pull".
Now, obviously, this is a contrived example, but this would simulate what would happen
if you're working on a repository shared with others;
they're moving forward, and if you don't keep your repositories in sync
you can run into changes that might conflict. I'm going to paste in the changes
that I copied from the GitHub repository side as a starting place.
I made my changes, so now I'm going to save and close:
"Updating README with malice on local side". So now if I do a "git status",
the status tells me that develop has diverged by one commit on each side respectively.
Let's try to do the "git pull"; normally what would happen if I was to
do these type of changes locally with local branches, I would result in a conflicting merge.
The same is true when we do a pull, since a "pull" is just a combination
of a "git fetch" plus a "git merge" targeting the remote branch.
And, as expected, this resulted in a merge conflict.
Like before, we can resolve our merge conflict
by either modifying our files directly, or by using a merge tool.
Since I have a merge tool configured, that's what I'm going to use.
"git mergetool"; that launches my merge tool, which, in this case, is P4Merge.
It provides me a nice, convenient, three way merge tool, which happens to be free.
I can inspect the different changes from the remote side and the local side,
and then decide how I want to resolve them,
which could include a combination of both, or a complete re-editing of this file.
I could come down here and decide I don't like any of these changes,
so I want to do a combination of both the remote and the local changes.
So, I'm going to copy this line, cut that out, and replace this text with just that one line.
Instead of just purpose, I want repository purpose, so I'm going to remove that.
Now that I've made my changes, I'm going to save. After saving, close P4Merge.
"Resolving conflict with unique approach", press enter.
If everything went well, you should exit the "MERGING" status,
which merging just means you're in a merge conflict,
and you should be back to where we just have our branch name,
which means we're out of the "MERGING" status.
The only file we have laying around is our ".orig" file, which we can get rid of.
Now if we do a "git status", our branch is "ahead of 'origin/develop' by 2 commits".
So now, let's clean up by pushing. Let's go check it out on GitHub.
We're back on the Readme file, and we're still on develop, so just reload.
We now see our changes.